---
layout: post
title: MLFlow evaluation notes
---

* MLFlow is an Open Source framework (set of libs + a model server + tracking
  server + ui) which organizes your work/research in ML into a more
reproducible/reliable process
* What problem does it solve?
  * making the research part of ML development more transparent and trackable
  * the artifacts of training and their properties are stored in a model store
  * it can organize your data processing into pipelines
* It is distributed as a python package, can be installed with `pip install
  mlflow`
* What I like about it?
  * Quite lightweight
  * Nice UI with metric visualizations
  * This is a real improvment in ML research
  * The concept of a universal model format is really nice
* Tracking data can be managed centrally:
  ```
  To log runs remotely, set the MLFLOW_TRACKING_URI environment variable to a
tracking server’s URI or call mlflow.set_tracking_uri().
  ```
* If you register the model in the model registry, MLFlow has ways to serve it.
* What is a model?
  * `Each MLflow Model is a directory containing arbitrary files, together with
    an MLmodel file in the root of the directory that can define multiple
flavors that the model can be viewed in.`
(https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/models.html#storage-format)
  * MLFlow introduces its own model format. After you are done with training
    (in any supported framework) you can simply save (or log - if you are using
model registry) the model to storage in that format. Using it enables MLFlow to
e.g. easily wrap it with a REST API service (so you can easily deploy it
somewhere).
* What is a "run"?
  * Run seems to be a logging session which starts at the process start and
    commences when it ends.
  * There can be multiple runs within the same process, you need to explicitly
    create them with user of the `mlflow.start_run()` context API or through
MfClient:
    * [source](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html#launching-multiple-runs-in-one-program)
* In MLFlow two things are tracked: runs and artifacts.
  * Runs can be stored in dbs, files etc
  * Artifacts need a form of blob storage (S3, Azure Blob Storage, FTP/SFTP,
    HDFS etc)
* MLFlow has a "Model registry"

  ```
  The MLflow Model Registry component is a centralized model store, set of
APIs, and UI, to
  collaboratively manage the full lifecycle of an MLflow Model. It provides
model lineage
  (which MLflow experiment and run produced the model), model versioning, stage
  transitions (for example from staging to production), and annotations.
  ``` [Source](The MLflow Model Registry component is a centralized model
store, set of APIs, and UI, to collaboratively manage the full lifecycle of an
MLflow Model. It provides model lineage (which MLflow experiment and run
produced the model), model versioning, stage transitions (for example from
staging to production), and annotations.)
* [Tracking](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/tracking.html#launching-multiple-runs-in-one-program)
* MLFlow introduces a concept of "projects":
  * Those seem to be "pipelines" which combine multiple steps into a
    reproducible workflow
  * Seem quite simplistic comparing to other solutions like DAGs in Airflow or
    in Kubeflow
* MLFlow can be extended by writing plugins:
  *
  ```
  The MLflow Python API supports several types of plugins:

  * Tracking Store: override tracking backend logic, e.g. to log to a
    third-party storage solution
  * ArtifactRepository: override artifact logging logic, e.g. to log to a
    third-party storage solution
  * Run context providers: specify context tags to be set on runs created via
    the mlflow.start_run() fluent API.
  * Model Registry Store: override model registry backend logic, e.g. to log to
    a third-party storage solution
  * MLFlow Project backend: override the local execution backend to execute a
    project on your own cluster (Databricks, kubernetes, etc.)
  ```
  * [Source](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/models.html#storage-format)
* Logging/storing of data can be done in different modes (e.g. artifacts are
  stored

While researching MLFlow capabilities, I have prepared some sample notebooks
[here](https://github.com/pkoperek/mlflow_evaluation).

* Links
  * [bytepawn on mlflow](https://bytepawn.com/getting-started-with-mlflow.html#getting-started-with-mlflow)
  * [databricks on mlflow](https://databricks.com/blog/2018/06/05/introducing-mlflow-an-open-source-machine-learning-platform.html)
